Sometimes I go to a place and tell stories
But occasionally I go somewhere and do not just find stories
but also a very good storyteller
On the grounds of the Alnwick castle, in the north of England,
is the Alnwick castle garden.
It is not as old as the castle,
that here is about 900 years,
but just as impressive.
Inside is one of the largest tree houses in the world,
beautiful water features and also ... this.
The less common Alnwick Gif Garden.
Welcome to the Poison garden.
All the plants here can kill you,
so it is not allowed to touch, smell or be close to them.
This is Ricinus communis (wonder tree)
and you can see that it has entire architectural leaves,
but the problem with it is
that, under laboratory conditions, you can remove ricin.
Ricine is the deadliest poison known to man
Here we have Atropa belladonna, a deadly nightshade,
a native plant in the UK.
These flowers that you see here
can make a black grape-like berry.
Four of those berries are enough to kill a child.
Really very toxic.
In Italy, especially around Venice,
the women squeeze out the berries to obtain the juice
and then they put the juice in their eyes
to widen their pupils so that they looked more attractive to men.
Because it is toxic, you slowly begin to lose your sight.
What you do not do for vanity.
Ruta graveolens (Wijnruit), again, a common plant
that you can actually buy in garden centers, yet it is phototoxic
which means that if you get the juice on your hands,
and your skin will start to blister in bright sunlight.
The moment that substance is in your system,
it stays there for up to 7 years.
We had an older gardener who came here in the Gif garden
and saw weeds grow from this plant,
and pulling the weeds out without putting on her gloves
Within an hour, she got blisters on her hand
and she ended up with third-degree burns.
This plant has Aconitum napellus.
He is very common.
He is often also called monkshood.
The complete plant is very poisonous.
Two years ago, there was a head gardener in Surrey
who unfortunately was working with this plant
and he died a few days later
and they blamed the plant's poisons.
Here we also have a common plant,
This is bay leaf, which is often used as a hedge.
The problem with laurel is that it produces cyanide
and in fact, Victoriaans used the leaves of these plants.
Split in two, done in a jam jar with the butterflies they had caught,
lid on it and the butterfly died naturally
by the cyanide poisoning.
Then, you can buy this plant in garden centers,
a common pot plant, he is called Brugmansia
and the whole plant is poisonous.
He is often called the Angel Trumpet.
It is a hallucinogenic plant so you can use it in many different ways.
In fact, Victorian women grew the Brugmansia on their tea tables
and then she invited other women for afternoon tea.
What they did then, they shook
a little bit of pollen in the teapot that would go into the tea
what loosened their tongue
and would have them talk about all kinds of nonsense.
We have a license from the Ministry of the Interior for growing Cannabis.
We're in a cage here.
Of course, it is a C class drug.
We use this plant to introduce children
to the harmful effects of drugs
This is Henbane.
It produces very peculiar flowers
that give off a sharp smell.
The smell is so strong that we often have people collapsing here,
that's why we have a couch at the wall.
Alruin, or the better-known name Mandragora,
is a very popular plant because of Harry Potter.
The complete plant is poisonous,
In the past, people thought that there was a small man
under the plant, because if you douse the plant,
the main root often had two small legs and a small arm
and so people invented that it was the devil.
People often said that they could hear the plant screaming when it was excavated,
and so there were many myths and legends around the Mandragora
The Duchess of Northumerland was the inspiration for the entire garden.
When she became a duchess, she had a vision
to create a modern, contemporary garden that would teach visitors something.
Then the Duchess realized: especially children do not want to listen
to lectures about herb gardens because then they switch off.
If you can tell them that the plants are really poisonous
and you can kill,
then you have to catch the imagination of that child.
Many thanks to the whole team at the Alnwick garden, and especially Trevor!
If you want to know more about the gardens or the castle,
look at the description.